# 1a
This is the first exercise and if you followed the tutorial in the parent directory then you already compiled and fuzz tested the binary. If everything went as expected we see a rising number of crashes when running the fuzz test, and we are able to determine there the application is crashable. But the journey does not end here, the most important step of fuzz testing is to reason about the results. There are plenty of ways to do so, but first take a look at the testcases:  

----------------------------------------------------------------

### The testcases share a property, which might not be obvious. Are you able to identify which?
The main result of the fuzz test is the testcases which provoke crashes. There is alot of ways to investigate the crash using the testcases, but we might be able to find something in common between the testcases. The common property can tell us something about how we can reproduce the crash and we can reason about how to prevent it as well. 

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>
The contents of each testcase seems quite random, but something interesting can be identified from the length
</details>

----------------------------------------------------------------
### Try to write down 3 testcases which crashes the application?
In order to confirm you assumptions, you can easily check if it holds by running the application with some testcases which yourself have generated. Try to write down 3 testcases which crashes the application and is not generated by AFL++. 

----------------------------------------------------------------
### What kind of programmer mistake often results in errors related this?
Writing secure C is difficult, even by experienced C developers, and it is no secret that there exists a vocabulary of common mistakes. One of these common mistakes is also resulting in the crash we observe in the application. Can you deduce which? (Using you favorite search engine can be a help inorder to look up what the common mistakes are)

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>
Remember the application is written in C. One of the most common mistake in C programming is missing bound-checks.
</details>

----------------------------------------------------------------
### Now open the source code! Where is the problem happening and how do we fix it?
Even if we pretended the fuzz test was blackbox, we have the opportunity to read the source code. We will ofcourse exploit that to check that our assumptions are correct. Furthermore, we are able to fix the application and make it safe for unexpected crashes. Are you able identify the mistake and fix it?

> The source code can be edited in the container used the command line editor Vim. In order to modify the code simply run the following command:
> ```bash
> vim main.b
> ```
> For first time Vim users it can be a bit hard to use. Here are some helpful commands:
> - `i` - enter insert mode
> - `esc` - exit insert mode
> - `:q` - quit
> - `:w` - write
> - `:wq` - write and quit
> 
> Vim is a powerful tool and for more details use your favorite search engine

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>
When we compiled the application, we were met with a warning:
<b>the `gets' function is dangerous and should not be used.</b>. When reading the source code it is then easy to recognize where the `gets` function is called. A fix is replacing the dangerous `gets` with the bounded `fgets` function. 
</details>

----------------------------------------------------------------

## Moving On
If we fixed the application correctly, we can recompile the source code with the fixes and fuzz test the newly compiled application. Hopefully we do not see any crashes, the application is safe and we can move on to the next exciting exercise.